docs(tutorial): proxmox cluster (#330)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/setup-elastic-metal-proxmox-cluster-with-private-networks/index.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: How to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: How to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using Private Networks
```

  description: This page explains how to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
content:
  h1: How to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
  paragraph: This page explains how to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
categories:
  - dedicated servers
  - elastic-metal
tags: Proxmox Elastic-Metal KVM-over-IP virtual-machine container
dates:
  validation: 2021-10-01
  posted: 2020-01-22
---

## Proxmox - Overview

[Proxmox Virtual Environment](https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve) - or Proxmox VE is a server virtualization platform, based on Debian Linux. It allows the deployment of management of [KVM-based](https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page) virtual machines or [LXC](https://linuxcontainers.org/) containers.

> The tool provides a REST-API as well as a graphical web interface to manage the virtual machines and is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License, version 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool provides a REST-API as well as a graphical web interface to manage the virtual machines. It is also licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License, version 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html).
```

Reviewer: je me demande si c'est necessaire de mettre cette info sachant que ca va p-e evoluer ?  (et qu'il faudra recheck derriere)

<Message type="requirement">

> - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
```

- You have at least two [Elastic Metal servers](https://www.scaleway.com/en/dedibox/) with [KVM-over-IP](/dedibox/kvm-over-ip/concepts/#kvm-over-ip) access

> - You have created a [Private Network](ADD_LINK) and linked your Elastic Metal servers to it

Reviewer: @RoRoJ t'as un lien à nous partager pour le mettre ici stp ?

Reviewer 2: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/elastic-metal/how-to/use-private-networks/

</Message>

## Installing Proxmox

> Follow the following guide to install Proxmox on your Bare Metal servers using the KVM-over-IP device: [Installation of Proxmox with software RAID on a Scaleway Dedibox using KVM-over-IP](/tutorials/proxmox-softraid/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the following guide to install Proxmox on your Bare Metal servers using the KVM-over-IP device: [Installation of Proxmox with software RAID on a Scaleway Dedibox using KVM-over-IP.](/tutorials/proxmox-softraid/)
```

## Accessing Proxmox

Once the server has rebooted, the Proxmox web interface is available.

> 1. Open a web browser and go to `https://your_elastic_metal_server:8006/`. The login displays. Enter your credentials and click **Login**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a web browser and go to `https://your_elastic_metal_server:8006/`. The login displays. 
2. Enter your credentials and click **Login**.
```

  Enter the credentials to login:

    - **User Name**: `root`
    - **Password**: The password set during the installation of Proxmox
    - **Realm**: `Linux PAM standard authentication`
    - **Language**: The display language of the Proxmox interface (i.e. `English`)

  The Proxmox dashboard displays.

## Configuring the Private Network

1. Click on the Proxmox host in the datacenter menu on the left. The servers dashboard displays.

2. Click **Network** in the **System** section of the menu. The network dashboard displays. 

3. Click **Create** > **Linux VLAN**. 

    <Lightframe src="scaleway-proxmox-network-dashboard.png" alt="" />

4. Enter the VLAN details for your Private Network: 

    <Lightfrae src="scaleway-proxmox-vlan-details.png" alt="" />

    * **Name**: The name of your primary interface followed by a dot and the VLAN ID of your Private Network (e.g. `eno1.1918` for the primary network interface `eno1` and the VLAN ID `1918`)

>     * **IPv4/CIDR**: The IP address of the machine in your Private Network followed by it's CIDR netmask (e.g. `192.168.1.101/24`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **IPv4/CIDR**: The IP address of the machine in your Private Network followed by its CIDR netmask (e.g. `192.168.1.101/24`)
```

>     * **Gateway (IPv4)**: The IP address if your [Public Gateway](/network/vpc/concepts#public-gateway) (optionally)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **(Optional) Gateway (IPv4)**: The IP address if your [Public Gateway](/network/vpc/concepts#public-gateway) 
```

Reviewer: Mettre ce point en dernier vu qu'il est optionel

    * **Autostart**: Tick this box to automatically bring up the interface during system startup

>     Click **Create** to create the Private Network interface.

Reviewer: Step  5 ?

    <Message type="note">

    Repeat the steps above on each node you want to add to your Private Network.

    </Message>

## Creating a Cluster 

1. Click **Cluster** in the Datacenter view of the Promox interface of your first node. The cluster dashboard displays.

    <Lightframe src="scaleway-proxmox-cluster-overview.png" alt="" />

2. Click **Create Cluster**. 

3. Enter a name for the cluster and select your Private Network as cluster network. Then click **Create**. 

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-create-cluster.png" alt="" />

4. Select the cluster in the cluster list and click **Join Information**. The cluster join information displays.

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-cluster-list.png" alt="" />

5. Click **Copy Information** to copy the cluster join information into the clipboard. 

> 6. Go to the Proxmox interface of your second node and enter the cluster configuration by clicking **Cluster** in the Datacenter view of the machine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Go to the Proxmox interface of your second node and click **Cluster** to enter the cluster configuration from the Datacenter view of the machine. 
```

> 7. Click **Join Cluster** and paste the cluster join information in the form. Then enter your first nodes `root` password and click **Join** to link the machine to the cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click **Join Cluster** and paste the cluster join information in the form. 
8. Enter your first nodes `root` password and click **Join** to link the machine to the cluster. 
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-join-cluster.png" alt="" />

> The second node appears now in the cluster in the Datacenter view of Proxmox. You can manage both machines using a unique interface. The communication between memebers of the cluster is entirely in your Private Network, ensureing highest level of security and lowest latency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second node appears now in the cluster in the Datacenter view of Proxmox. You can manage both machines using a unique interface. The communication between members of the cluster is entirely in your Private Network, ensuring the highest level of security and lowest latency. 
```

---
meta:
  title: How to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using Private Networks
  description: This page explains how to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
content:
  h1: How to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
  paragraph: This page explains how to setup a Proxmox cluster on Elastic Metal servers using the Private Networks feature
categories:
  - dedicated servers
  - elastic-metal
tags: Proxmox Elastic-Metal KVM-over-IP virtual-machine container
dates:

>   validation: 2021-10-01

Reviewer 2: change both dates

Author: ```suggestion
  validation: 2022-01-10
```

>   posted: 2020-01-22

Author: ```suggestion
  posted: 2022-01-10
```

---

## Proxmox - Overview

> [Proxmox Virtual Environment](https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve) - or Proxmox VE is a server virtualization platform, based on Debian Linux. It allows the deployment of management of [KVM-based](https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page) virtual machines or [LXC](https://linuxcontainers.org/) containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Proxmox Virtual Environment](https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve) - or Proxmox VE is a server virtualization platform, based on Debian Linux. It allows the deployment and management of [KVM-based](https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page) virtual machines or [LXC](https://linuxcontainers.org/) containers.
```

The tool provides a REST-API as well as a graphical web interface to manage the virtual machines. It is also licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License, version 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.html).

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

> - You have at least two [Elastic Metal servers](https://www.scaleway.com/en/dedibox/) with [KVM-over-IP](/dedibox/kvm-over-ip/concepts/#kvm-over-ip) access

Reviewer 2: should this link go to Elastic Metal rather than dedibox?

- You have created a [Private Network](ADD_LINK) and linked your Elastic Metal servers to it

</Message>

## Installing Proxmox

> Follow the following guide to install Proxmox on your Bare Metal servers using the KVM-over-IP device: [Installation of Proxmox with software RAID on a Scaleway Dedibox using KVM-over-IP.](/tutorials/proxmox-softraid/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow this guide to install Proxmox on your Elastic Metal servers using the KVM-over-IP device: [Installation of Proxmox with software RAID on a Scaleway Dedibox using KVM-over-IP.](/tutorials/proxmox-softraid/)
```

## Accessing Proxmox

Once the server has rebooted, the Proxmox web interface is available.

> 1. Open a web browser and go to `https://your_elastic_metal_server:8006/`. The login displays. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open a web browser and go to `https://your_elastic_metal_server_ip:8006/`. The login screen displays. 
```

2. Enter your credentials and click **Login**.

  Enter the credentials to login:

    - **User Name**: `root`
    - **Password**: The password set during the installation of Proxmox
    - **Realm**: `Linux PAM standard authentication`
    - **Language**: The display language of the Proxmox interface (i.e. `English`)

  The Proxmox dashboard displays.

## Configuring the Private Network

1. Click on the Proxmox host in the datacenter menu on the left. The servers dashboard displays.

2. Click **Network** in the **System** section of the menu. The network dashboard displays. 

3. Click **Create** > **Linux VLAN**. 

    <Lightframe src="scaleway-proxmox-network-dashboard.png" alt="" />

4. Enter the VLAN details for your Private Network: 

    <Lightfrae src="scaleway-proxmox-vlan-details.png" alt="" />

    * **Name**: The name of your primary interface followed by a dot and the VLAN ID of your Private Network (e.g. `eno1.1918` for the primary network interface `eno1` and the VLAN ID `1918`)
    * **IPv4/CIDR**: The IP address of the machine in your Private Network followed by its CIDR netmask (e.g. `192.168.1.101/24`)

>     * **(Optional) Gateway (IPv4)**: The IP address if your [Public Gateway](/network/vpc/concepts#public-gateway) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **(Optional) Gateway (IPv4)**: The IP address of your [Public Gateway](/network/vpc/concepts#public-gateway), if you want to use one.
```

>     * **Autostart**: Tick this box to automatically bring up the interface during system startup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **Autostart**: Tick this box to automatically bring up the interface during system startup.
```

    Repeat the steps above on each node you want to add to your Private Network.

    </Message>

## Creating a Cluster 

1. Click **Cluster** in the Datacenter view of the Promox interface of your first node. The cluster dashboard displays.

    <Lightframe src="scaleway-proxmox-cluster-overview.png" alt="" />

2. Click **Create Cluster**. 

3. Enter a name for the cluster and select your Private Network as cluster network. Then click **Create**. 

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-create-cluster.png" alt="" />

4. Select the cluster in the cluster list and click **Join Information**. The cluster join information displays.

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-cluster-list.png" alt="" />

5. Click **Copy Information** to copy the cluster join information into the clipboard. 

6. Go to the Proxmox interface of your second node and click **Cluster** to enter the cluster configuration from the Datacenter view of the machine. 

7. Click **Join Cluster** and paste the cluster join information in the form. 
8. Enter your first nodes `root` password and click **Join** to link the machine to the cluster. 

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-proxmox-join-cluster.png" alt="" />

> The second node appears now in the cluster in the Datacenter view of Proxmox. You can manage both machines using a unique interface. The communication between members of the cluster is entirely in your Private Network, ensuring the highest level of security and lowest latency. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second node appears now in the cluster in the Datacenter view of Proxmox. You can manage both machines using a single interface. The communication between members of the cluster is entirely in your Private Network, ensuring the highest level of security and the lowest latency. 
```
